Marketplace docs (#3073)
mattermost/docs: source/administration/plugins.rst

Plugin Marketplace
-------
The Plugin Marketplace is a collection of plugins that can greatly increase the value and capabilities of your Mattermost deployment.  End-users can see increased productivity through quick access to systems such as Jira, Zoom, Webex, and GitHub.  Mattermost Administrators can discover new plugins and quickly deploy them to their servers, including High availability clusters.  It is available in 5.16 and is accessed via **Main Menu > Plugin Marketplace**.  Our Marketplace listings will continue to expand as we add new features and plugins.  

.. image:: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/915956/66891467-1b18eb80-ef9e-11e9-9de3-37a3c5899bd8.png

Installing a Plugin
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When a new plugin becomes available on the marketplace, a new listing with a button labeled **Install** will be displayed.  After clicking **Install**, the latest plugin binary is downloaded from it's respective source and installed on the server. If there is a cluster present, the plugin will be automatically distributed to each server automatically.   

> Configuring and enabling a plugin

Author: Added: https://github.com/mattermost/docs/commit/af093ca6321eb26434200ad76dacb65b436a3a78#diff-5b251ece5f4aae3a0425d5a356d79380

> Configuring and enabling a plugin

Reviewer: @aaronrothschild That's ok. In the future, please don't add new commits in the v5.16 docs PR.

> Configuring and enabling a plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuring and Enabling a Plugin
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Once a plugin has been installed (or pre-installed if it shipped with Mattermost binary release) there will be a "Configure" button shown next to the plugin listing.  

1. Click on the button and you will be navigated to the plugins "Settings" page.  
2. Fill in Plugin settings as required.

> 3. At the top of the page, set **Enable Plugin** setting to ``True``.  If this flag is not switched on, the plugin will never become active.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. At the top of the page, set **Enable Plugin** setting to ``True``. The plugin will remain inactive until this flag is switched on.
```

> 4. Test out the plugin as needed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Test out the plugin as needed.
```

Upgrading Plugins
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> In v5.16, the Marketplace only supports the installation of new plugins.  To upgrade a plugin, you will need to manually update it by downloading the binary file from the GitHub repository and uploading it in the **System Console > Plugin management** section.  In v5.18 (Dec 2019), the Marketplace will allow you to upgrade a plugin on demand when a new version becomes available.

Reviewer 2: nit: Should we be committing to timelines in documentation like this?
```suggestion
In v5.16, the Marketplace only supports the installation of new plugins.  To upgrade a plugin, you will need to manually update it by downloading the binary file from the GitHub repository and uploading it in the **System Console > Plugin management** section.  In an upcoming release, the Marketplace will allow you to upgrade a plugin on demand when a new version becomes available.
```

Author: I was on the fence, removing.

Marketplace Server
-----

There are two Marketplace settings in the **System Console > Plugin management** section:

.. image:: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/915956/66892854-94660d80-efa1-11e9-805c-a85223d43a07.png

- **Enable Marketplace**: Turns the Marketplace User Interface on or off for System Administrators.

> - **Marketplace URL**: The location of the Marketplace Server you want to query for new plugins. Mattermost hosts a Plugin Marketplace for the community and is the default value for this field. You can setup your own Marketplace server if you want to rely on your own infrastructure.

Reviewer 3: @aaronrothschild the other paragraph that was removed mentioned the marketplace server repo, should that be included here to guide admins to the repo?
https://github.com/mattermost/docs/pull/3073/commits/5569cad34733a1ca162f17b4e2e7eb3d0a94efd5
```
The `Plugin marketplace server code <https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace>`__ is available as an open-source project and can be used to setup your own private Marketplace if desired.
```

Author: It's included in a paragraph below, didn't need it duplicated..

> - **Marketplace URL** The location of the Marketplace Server you want to query for new plugins. Mattermost hosts a Plugin Marketplace for the community and is the default value for this field. You can setup your own Marketplace server if you want to rely on your own infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Marketplace URL**: The location of the Marketplace Server you want to query for new plugins. Mattermost hosts a Plugin Marketplace for the community and is the default value for this field. You can setup your own Marketplace server if you want to rely on your own infrastructure.
```

> When you are first presented with the Marketplace, your Mattermost server will attempt to contact the Marketplace Server, run by Mattermost, and return a list of available plugins that are appropriate based on the server version that is currently running.  Only your server version is passed over to Mattermost Marketplace. We retain an anonymized record for product analytics whenever a new plugin is installed, unless you have opted out of `Telemetry <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/telemetry.html>`__ previously. The `Plugin marketplace server code <https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace>`__ is available as an open-source project and can be used to setup your own private Marketplace if desired.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you are first presented with the Marketplace, your Mattermost server will attempt to contact the Marketplace Server, run by Mattermost, and return a list of available plugins that are appropriate based on the server version that is currently running.  Only your server version is passed over to Mattermost Marketplace. We retain an anonymized record for product analytics whenever a new plugin is installed, unless you have previously opted out of `Telemetry <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/telemetry.html>`__. The `Plugin marketplace server code <https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace>`__ is available as an open-source project and can be used to setup your own private Marketplace if desired.

> When you are first presented with the Marketplace, your Mattermost server will attempt to contact the Marketplace Server, run by Mattermost, and return a list of available plugins that are appropriate based on the server version that is currently running.  Only your server version is passed over to Mattermost Marketplace. We retain an anonymized record for product analytics whenever a new plugin is installed, unless you have previously opted out of `Telemetry <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/telemetry.html>`__. The `Plugin marketplace server code <https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace>`__ is available as an open-source project and can be used to setup your own private Marketplace if desired.  

Reviewer 4: > The `Plugin marketplace server code <https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace>`__ is available as an open-source project and can be used to setup your own private Marketplace if desired.  

Should this last line be in the previous paragraph where it talks about setting up your own server? Seems like it would tie better there than next to the telemetry content. 
 
```suggestion
- **Marketplace URL**: The location of the Marketplace Server you want to query for new plugins. Mattermost hosts a Plugin Marketplace for the community and is the default value for this field. You can setup your own Marketplace server if you want to rely on your own infrastructure. The `Plugin marketplace server code <https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace>`__ is available as an open-source project and can be used to setup your own private Marketplace if desired.

When you are first presented with the Marketplace, your Mattermost server will attempt to contact the Marketplace Server, run by Mattermost, and return a list of available plugins that are appropriate based on the server version that is currently running.  Only your server version is passed over to Mattermost Marketplace. We retain an anonymized record for product analytics whenever a new plugin is installed, unless you have previously opted out of `Telemetry <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/telemetry.html>`__.   
```

Author: Yes, I think that makes more sense

> When you are first presented with the Marketplace, your Mattermost server will attempt to contect the Marketplace Server, run by Mattermost, and will be returned a list of available plugins that are appropriate based on the server version that is currently running.  Only your server version and search query is passed over to Mattermost Marketplace, we retain an anonymized record for product analytics whenever a new plugin is installed, unless you have opted out of `Telemetry <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/telemetry.html>`__ previously. The `Plugin marketplace server code <https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace>`__ is available as an open-source project and can be used to setup your own private Marketplace if desired.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you are first presented with the Marketplace, your Mattermost server will attempt to contact the Marketplace Server, run by Mattermost, and return a list of available plugins that are appropriate based on the server version that is currently running.  Only your server version and search query is passed over to Mattermost Marketplace. We retain an anonymized record for product analytics whenever a new plugin is installed, unless you have opted out of `Telemetry <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/telemetry.html>`__ previously. The `Plugin marketplace server code <https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace>`__ is available as an open-source project and can be used to setup your own private Marketplace if desired.  
```

Which plugins are listed in the Marketplace?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The `Mattermost Plugin Marketplace <https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace>`__ is a service run by Mattermost that contains listings of plugins that we have reviewed and in many cases built. In the future, we plan to include community developed plugins that will be labeled differently than "mattermost developed" plugins.  We plan to include settings that would restrict which types of plugins you can install.  Comments in our `forum are welcome <https://forum.mattermost.org/>`_ as we develop this feature further. 

Reviewer 2: I'm not in alignment with some of the future plans here -- proposal inline:
```suggestion
The `Mattermost Plugin Marketplace <https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace>`__ only includes plugins compiled by Mattermost and certified for use with your Mattermost server. In the future, we plan to include open-source plugins developed by our community, but always compiled and certified by Mattermost. Comments in our `forum are welcome <https://forum.mattermost.org/>`_ as we develop this feature further. 
```

> The `Mattermost Plugin Marketplace <https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace>`__ is a service run by Mattermost that contains listings of plugins that we have reviewed and in many cases built. In the future, we plan to include community developed plugins that will be labeled differently than "mattermost developed" plugins.  We plan to include settings that would restrict which types of plugins you can install.  Comments in our forum are welcome as we develop this feature further. 

Reviewer: Add a link to forum: https://forum.mattermost.org/.

Author: done

Mattermost Integration Directory
-----

> There are many ways to integrate Mattermost aside from plugins, and we have created a directory of integrations "recipes", some of which are scripts, plugins, or instructions on how to connect Mattermost with your Enterprise systems. Many are sourced from our community of customers.  You can browse the directory at `https://integrations.mattermost.com/ <https://integrations.mattermost.com/>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many ways to integrate Mattermost aside from plugins. We have created a directory of integrations "recipes", some of which are scripts, plugins, or instructions on how to connect Mattermost with your Enterprise systems. Many are sourced from our community of customers.  You can browse the directory at `https://integrations.mattermost.com/ <https://integrations.mattermost.com/>`__.
```

 - When you want to extend Mattermost functionality to meet a specific, complex requirement
 - When you want to build integrations that are managed by your Mattermost server

> Plugins are fully supported by both Team and Enterprise Editions. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Plugins are fully supported by both Team and Enterprise Editions.
```

Plugin Marketplace
-------
The Plugin Marketplace is a collection of plugins that can greatly increase the value and capabilities of your Mattermost deployment.  End-users can see increased productivity through quick access to systems such as Jira, Zoom, Webex, and GitHub.  Mattermost Administrators can discover new plugins and quickly deploy them to their servers, including High availability clusters.  It is available in 5.16 and is accessed via **Main Menu > Plugin Marketplace**.  Our Marketplace listings will continue to expand as we add new features and plugins.  

.. image:: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/915956/66891467-1b18eb80-ef9e-11e9-9de3-37a3c5899bd8.png

Installing a Plugin
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When a new plugin becomes available on the marketplace, a new listing with a button labeled **Install** will be displayed.  After clicking **Install**, the latest plugin binary is downloaded from its respective source and installed on the server.    

Configuring and Enabling a Plugin
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Once a plugin has been installed (or pre-installed if it shipped with the Mattermost binary release) there will be a "Configure" button shown next to the plugin listing.  

Reviewer 3: In the above paragraph the install button is referred in **bold**, should `"Configure"` and `"Settings"` be referred in **bold** as well?

4. Test out the plugin as needed.

Upgrading Plugins
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In v5.16, the Marketplace only supports the installation of new plugins.  To upgrade a plugin, you will need to manually update it by downloading the binary file from the GitHub repository and uploading it in the **System Console > Plugin management** section.  In an upcoming release, the Marketplace will allow you to upgrade a plugin on demand when a new version becomes available.

Marketplace Server
-----

There are two Marketplace settings in the **System Console > Plugin management** section:

.. image:: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/915956/66892854-94660d80-efa1-11e9-805c-a85223d43a07.png

- **Enable Marketplace**: Turns the Marketplace User Interface on or off for System Administrators.
- **Marketplace URL**: The location of the Marketplace Server you want to query for new plugins. Mattermost hosts a Plugin Marketplace for the community and is the default value for this field. You can setup your own Marketplace server if you want to rely on your own infrastructure.

> - **Marketplace URL**: The location of the Marketplace Server you want to query for new plugins. Mattermost hosts a Plugin Marketplace for the community and is the default value for this field. You can setup your own Marketplace server if you want to rely on your own infrastructure. The `Plugin marketplace server code <https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace>`__ is available as an open-source project and can be used to setup your own private Marketplace if desired.

Reviewer 5: Happened to notice, but this bullet is duplicated above

Reviewer 3: Ah good catch, looks like the other paragraph should be removed. @aaronrothschild

Author: Removed

 - When you want to extend Mattermost functionality to meet a specific, complex requirement
 - When you want to build integrations that are managed by your Mattermost server

Plugins are fully supported by both Team and Enterprise Editions. 

Plugin Marketplace
-------

> The Plugin Marketplace is a collection of plugins that can greatly increase the value and capabilities of your Mattermost deployment.  End-users can see increased productivity through quick access to systems such as Jira, Zoom, Webex, and GitHub.  Mattermost Administrators can discover new plugins and quickly deploy them to their servers, including High availability clusters.  It is available in 5.16 and is accessed via **Main Menu > Plugin Marketplace**.  Our Marketplace listings will continue to expand as we add new features and plugins that our customers request.  

Reviewer 6: There are some double white spaces in this document. Would you please remove them?

> The Plugin Marketplace is a collection of plugins that can greatly increase the value and capabilities of your Mattermost deployment.  End-users can see increased productivity through quick access to systems such as Jira, Zoom, Webex, and GitHub.  Mattermost Administrators can discover new plugins and quickly deploy them to their servers, including High availability clusters.  It is available in 5.16 and is accessed via **Main Menu > Plugin Marketplace**.  Our Marketplace listings will continue to expand as we add new features and plugins that our customers request.  

Reviewer 6: I hope that we won't only include requested plugins.

```suggestion
The Plugin Marketplace is a collection of plugins that can greatly increase the value and capabilities of your Mattermost deployment.  End-users can see increased productivity through quick access to systems such as Jira, Zoom, Webex, and GitHub.  Mattermost Administrators can discover new plugins and quickly deploy them to their servers, including High availability clusters.  It is available in 5.16 and is accessed via **Main Menu > Plugin Marketplace**.  Our Marketplace listings will continue to expand as we add new features and plugins.  
```

.. image:: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/915956/66891467-1b18eb80-ef9e-11e9-9de3-37a3c5899bd8.png

Installing a Plugin
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> When a new plugin becomes available on the marketplace, a new listing with a button labeled **Install** will be displayed.  After clicking **Install**, the latest plugin binary is downloaded from it's respective github repository and installed on the server.  If there is a cluster present, the plugin will be automatically distributed to each server automatically.   

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
When a new plugin becomes available on the marketplace, a new listing with a button labeled **Install** will be displayed.  After clicking **Install**, the latest plugin binary is downloaded from it's respective source and installed on the server. If there is a cluster present, the plugin will be automatically distributed to each server automatically.   
```

> When a new plugin becomes available on the marketplace, a new listing with a button labeled **Install** will be displayed.  After clicking **Install**, the latest plugin binary is downloaded from it's respective github repository and installed on the server.  If there is a cluster present, the plugin will be automatically distributed to each server automatically.   

Reviewer 6: Do we really need to mention clusters here? It seams like an over complication.

Author: Removed it

Configuring and enabling a plugin
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Once a plugin has been installed (or pre-installed if it shipped with Mattermost binary release) there will be a "Configure" button shown next to the plugin listing.  

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Once a plugin has been installed there will be a "Configure" button shown next to the plugin listing.  
```

I would like to keep this exception out, as it's confusion. To me this mixes up two installation methods (pre-packaged and Marketplace).

Author: I think people will wonder why everything is already installed when they finish upgrading to 5.16.  This is meant to answer "why".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once a plugin has been installed (or pre-installed if it shipped with the Mattermost binary release) there will be a "Configure" button shown next to the plugin listing.  
```

1. Click on the button, you will be navigated to the plugins "Settings" page.  
2. Fill in Plugin settings as required
3. At the top of the page, set **Enable Plugin** setting to ``True``.  If this flag is not switched on, the plugin will never become active.
4. Test out the plugin as needed

Upgrading Plugins
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In v5.16, the Marketplace only supports the installation of new plugins.  To upgrade a plugin, you will need to manually update it by downloading the binary file from the GitHub repository and uploading it in the **System Console > Plugin management** section.  In v5.18 (Dec 2019), the Marketplace will allow you to upgrade a plugin on demand when a new version becomes available.

Marketplace Server
-----

There are two Marketplace settings in the **System Console > Plugin management** section:

.. image:: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/915956/66892854-94660d80-efa1-11e9-805c-a85223d43a07.png

> - **Enable Marketplace** Turns the Marketplace UI on or off for all users (including sysadmins)

Reviewer 6: The Marketplace UI is only shown for admins.

> - **Marketplace URL** The location of the Marketplace Server you want to query for new plugins. Mattermost hosts a Plugin Marketplace for the community and is the default value for this field.  You can setup your own Marketplace server, see below.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- **Marketplace URL** The location of the Marketplace Server you want to query for new plugins. Mattermost hosts a Plugin Marketplace for the community and is the default value for this field. You can setup your own Marketplace server if you want to rely on your own infrastructure.
```

> When you are first presented with the Marketplace, your Mattermost server will attempt to contect the Marketplace Server,run by Mattermost, and will be returned a list of available plugins that are appropriate based on the server version that is currently running.  Only your server version and search query is passed over to Mattermost Marketplace, we retain an anonymized record for product analytics whenever a new plugin is installed, unless you have opted out of `Telemetry <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/telemetry.html>`__ previously. The `Plugin marketplace server code <https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace>`__ is available as an open-source project and can be used to setup your own private Marketplace if desired.  

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
When you are first presented with the Marketplace, your Mattermost server will attempt to contect the Marketplace Server, run by Mattermost, and will be returned a list of available plugins that are appropriate based on the server version that is currently running.  Only your server version and search query is passed over to Mattermost Marketplace, we retain an anonymized record for product analytics whenever a new plugin is installed, unless you have opted out of `Telemetry <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/telemetry.html>`__ previously. The `Plugin marketplace server code <https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace>`__ is available as an open-source project and can be used to setup your own private Marketplace if desired.  
```

> When you are first presented with the Marketplace, your Mattermost server will attempt to contect the Marketplace Server,run by Mattermost, and will be returned a list of available plugins that are appropriate based on the server version that is currently running.  Only your server version and search query is passed over to Mattermost Marketplace, we retain an anonymized record for product analytics whenever a new plugin is installed, unless you have opted out of `Telemetry <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/telemetry.html>`__ previously. The `Plugin marketplace server code <https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace>`__ is available as an open-source project and can be used to setup your own private Marketplace if desired.  

Reviewer 6: " Only your server version and search query is passed over to Mattermost Marketplace"

I thought we would do local only search?

> Mattermost Marketplace

Reviewer 6: The title is a bit misleading. Maybe just call it "What plugins are listed in the Marketplace?"

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `Mattermost Plugin Marketplace <https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace>`__ is a service run by Mattermost that contains listings of plugins that we have reviewed and in many cases built. In the future, we plan to include community developed plugins that will be labeled differently than "mattermost developed" plugins.  We plan to include settings that would restrict which types of plugins you can install.  Comments in our forum are welcome as we develop this feature further. 

Mattermost Integration Directory
-----

> There are many ways to integrate Mattermost aside from plugins, and we have created a directory of integrations "recipes", some of which are scripts, plugins, or instructions on how to connect Mattermost with your Enterprise systems. Many are sourced from our community of customers.  You can browse the directory at `https://integrations.mattermost.com/ <https://integrations.mattermost.com/>`__.

Reviewer 6: This paragraph seams misplaced here. The whole page is about plugin and this paragraph is talking about integrations in general. What do you think about moving it into https://docs.mattermost.com/developer/integration-faq.html ?

Author: This link was there before, and I think because we don't have ANY community plugins listed yet, if someone wants to find other integrations....that directory is the best spot for right now.  And many are plugins that cannot be found on the marketplace right now.  I think we should leave it until the marketplace has more options.

Reviewer 6: Agreed.

> About Plugins

Reviewer 6: I would like to move this back on the top. It's kind of an introduction that makes more sense at the beginning.

Author: done
